#datatypes #lvalue
# Expressions

An expressions is "a combination of literals, variables, operators, and function calls that can be executed to produce a singular value."
## Properties

All expressions in C++ have two properties: a type and a value category

## The type of an expression

Equivalent to the type of the value, object, or function that results from the evaluated expression. Must be determinable at compile time; however, the value of an expression may be determined at either compile time or runtime. 

## The value category of an expression

The value category of an expression indicates whether an expression resolves to a value, function, or an object of some kind. Many different possible value categories: lvalue, rvalue, glvalue, prvalue, xvalue.

## Lvalue and rvalue expressions

An lvalue is an expression that evaluates to an identifiable object or function. Entities with identities can be accessed via an identifier, reference, or pointer. 
```c++
int main()
{
    int x { 5 };
    int y { x }; // x is an lvalue expression

    return 0;
}
```

A modifiable lvalue is an lvalue whose value can be modified. A non-modifiable lvalue is an lvalue whose  value can't be modified (lvalue is const or constexpr).

An rvalue is an expression that is not an lvalue. They evaluate to a value. Includes literals and the return value of functions and operators that return by value. Not identifiable and only exist within the scope of the expression in which they are used
```c++
int return5()
{
    return 5;
}

int main()
{
    int x{ 5 }; // 5 is an rvalue expression
    const double d{ 1.2 }; // 1.2 is an rvalue expression

    int y { x }; // x is a modifiable lvalue expression
    const double e { d }; // d is a non-modifiable lvalue expression
    int z { return5() }; // return5() is an rvalue expression (since the result is returned by value)

    int w { x + 1 }; // x + 1 is an rvalue expression
    int q { static_cast<int>(d) }; // the result of static casting d to an int is an rvalue expression

    return 0;
}
```

## Lvalue to rvalue conversion

Lvalue expressions will implicitly convert to rvalue expressions in contexts where an rvalue is expect but an lvalue is provided.